Alternate SSH Command for Git.md, before:

Tags: #ssh #git

Controlling SSH configuration when interacting with Git is typically done via `${HOME}/.ssh/config` (e.g. specifying the use of specific keys, or using `ProxyJump` to navigate multiple bastion hosts), though that does not good when one needs to use a different SSH client for the underlying connection.  This can be required when the remote system supplies a custom distribution, perhaps for using Kerberos for authentication. 

In this case, one can either specify an environment variable or the `core.sshCommand` variable in the appropriate `.gitconfig`.

Without specifying either, the first SSH client found in the `PATH` is used and the connection is rejected:
```shell
$ git push remote-with-special-ssh
user@host: Permission denied (gssapi-with-mic).
```

By specifying an alternate SSH client, the connection works:
```shell
$ GIT_SSH=/usr/local/bin/ssh git push remote-with-special-ssh
Counting objects: 29554, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (5190/5190), done.
Writing objects: 100% (29554/29554), 118.46 MiB | 1.13 MiB/s, done.
Total 29554 (delta 23807), reused 29541 (delta 23795)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (23807/23807), done.
To host:/home/user/repo.git
 * [new branch]        testing -> testing
updating local tracking ref 'refs/remotes/host/testing'
```

See [`git-config(1)`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config) for more details.

Commit message:

Topic: Knowledge Graph Specifying Alternative SSH Commands to Git and rsync
Description:
  * Added a note on how to specify an alternative SSH command to rsync.  Updated
    the existing note on specifying an alternative SSH command to git to
    indicate the environment variable of interest.

Alternate SSH Command for Git.md, after:

Tags: #ssh #git

Controlling SSH configuration when interacting with Git is typically done via `${HOME}/.ssh/config` (e.g. specifying the use of specific keys, or using `ProxyJump` to navigate multiple bastion hosts), though that does not good when one needs to use a different SSH client for the underlying connection.  This can be required when the remote system supplies a custom distribution, perhaps for using Kerberos for authentication. 

In this case, one can either specify an environment variable (`GIT_SSH`) or the `core.sshCommand` variable in the appropriate `.gitconfig`.

Without specifying either, the first SSH client found in the `PATH` is used and the connection is rejected:
```shell
$ git push remote-with-special-ssh
user@host: Permission denied (gssapi-with-mic).
```

By specifying an alternate SSH client, the connection works:
```shell
$ GIT_SSH=/usr/local/bin/ssh git push remote-with-special-ssh
Counting objects: 29554, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (5190/5190), done.
Writing objects: 100% (29554/29554), 118.46 MiB | 1.13 MiB/s, done.
Total 29554 (delta 23807), reused 29541 (delta 23795)
remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (23807/23807), done.
To host:/home/user/repo.git
 * [new branch]        testing -> testing
updating local tracking ref 'refs/remotes/host/testing'
```

See [`git-config(1)`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config) for more details.

The specification of an alternative remote shell is similar to how [[Alternate SSH Command for rsync|`rsync`]] does it.
