Fortran IO with Namelists.md, before:

Tags: #software-engineering #scientific-computing #fortran 

Namelists are a legacy method to specify key-value configuration text files.  

Defining them in the code is done like so:
```fortran
    NAMELIST /config_values/ &
        key1, &
        key2, &
        ...
        keyN
```

And are read and written with the `nml` parameter in lieu of the `fmt` parameter:
```fortran
read( io_unit,  nml=config_values )
write( io_unit, nml=config_values )
```

The above parses and writes the following file (the case can differ, see the [[#Namelist Requirements|requirements]] below):
```
&config_values
key1 = value1
key2 = value2
...
keyn = value
/
```

# Namelist Requirements
Formatting requirements of a namelist file (see Modern Fortran Explained section 9.10):
1. The namelist declaration must not contain whitespace between the ampersand and the namelist name.  `&config_values` is valid, but `& config_values` is not.
2. Whitespace may precede the namelist declaration.
3. The trailing slash (`/`) is required.
4. Order of key/value pairs does not have to match the definition.
5. Case does not matter for the keys in the namelist file.
6. Whitespace may precede or follow keys in the namelist file.
7. Comments may appear at the end of the line, or on their own line may, be specified by `!`.

## Reading
The order of keys in the file does not have to match the namelist's definition.  Variables corresponding to a missing key are not modified during the `read()` and retain their previous value.

Case for the keys does not matter and is ignored.

Whitespace before and after the `=` separator is ignored.

Keys may be repeated multiple times and the value is that of the last encountered key.

## Writing
The namelist name and all keys are written in upper-case.

## Portability
Some compilers are lenient when parsing a namelist file which leads to portability issues between systems.  Just because one compiler reads a namelist file does not mean that it correct.

Debugging a non-compliant namelist file can be a pain, and may manifest in a number of ways (e.g. [[End of File in Fortran IO|EOF encountered]] and nothing more).

Check the following when I/O errors occur:

- [No spaces between start of name list and its name](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35758473/error-using-namelist-in-gfortran)
- Make sure line endings are consistent and match the OS
- Move the trailing slash to a new line

Commit message:

Topic: Knowledge Graph Fortran Updates
Description:
  * Added and updated a number of notes on Fortran-related topics, including:

    - Debugging under GDB
    - Updated features in FORTRAN77 and Fortran95
    - Created notes for Fortran 2003's and 2018's functionality
    - Miscellaneous notes on I/O and flushing open units
    - Quirks related to various compilers and how they handle long symbol names

Fortran IO with Namelists.md, after:

Tags: #software-engineering #scientific-computing #fortran 

Namelists are a legacy method to specify key-value configuration text files.  

Defining them in the code is done like so:
```fortran
    NAMELIST /config_values/ &
        key1, &
        key2, &
        ...
        keyN
```

And are read and written with the `nml` parameter in lieu of the `fmt` parameter:
```fortran
read( io_unit,  nml=config_values )
write( io_unit, nml=config_values )
```

The above parses and writes the following file (the case can differ, see the [[#Namelist Requirements|requirements]] below):
```
&config_values
key1 = value1
key2 = value2
...
keyn = value
/
```

# Namelist Requirements
Formatting requirements of a namelist file (see Modern Fortran Explained section 9.10):
1. The namelist declaration must not contain whitespace between the ampersand and the namelist name.  `&config_values` is valid, but `& config_values` is not.
2. Whitespace may precede the namelist declaration.
3. The trailing slash (`/`) is required.
4. Order of key/value pairs does not have to match the definition.
5. Case does not matter for the keys in the namelist file.
6. Whitespace may precede or follow keys in the namelist file.
7. Comments may appear at the end of the line, or on their own line may, be specified by `!`.

## Reading
The order of keys in the file does not have to match the namelist's definition.  Variables corresponding to a missing key are not modified during the `read()` and retain their previous value.

Case for the keys does not matter and is ignored.

Whitespace before and after the `=` separator is ignored.

Keys may be repeated multiple times and the value is that of the last encountered key.

Strings should be quoted.  In reality, the interplay between opening units with the `DELIM=` argument, reading from internal files (reading from a string), and writing files that will be read in as namelists is complicated - but all of that can be sidestepped by being standards-compliant and quoting strings.  See [[#Quoting Character Variables|here for more details]].

## Writing
The namelist name and all keys are written in upper-case.  

Be careful about opening the output unit with `DELIM=` set to anything except `DELIM=quote` as the [[#Quoting Character Variables|output generated is not standards-compliant]].

## Portability
Some compilers are lenient when parsing a namelist file which leads to portability issues between systems.  Just because one compiler reads a namelist file does not mean that it correct.

Debugging a non-compliant namelist file can be a pain, and may manifest in a number of ways (e.g. [[End of File in Fortran IO|EOF encountered]] and nothing more).

Check the following when I/O errors occur:

- [No spaces between start of name list and its name](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35758473/error-using-namelist-in-gfortran)
- Strings must be quoted.
- Make sure line endings are consistent and match the OS
- Move the trailing slash to a new line

# Quoting Character Variables
What is a standards-compliant character variable input is complicated, but character variables must have quotes.  This [dialog](https://community.intel.com/t5/Intel-Fortran-Compiler/Non-delimited-strings-in-a-namelist-is-not-a-sane-default/m-p/1134545) between Marshall Ward and [[Who's Who In Fortran#Steve Lionel|Steve Lionel]] indicates that quoted strings are standards-compliant, and that non-quoted strings are undefined behavior leaving the compiler to do whatever they want - complain or silently accept unquoted strings (because it is compiler-dependent behavior to handle non-standards-compliant situations).  [Section 10.10 of the Fortran 2003 specification](https://wg5-fortran.org/N1601-N1650/N1601.pdf) ([here are all sections and updates](https://wg5-fortran.org/f2003.html)) is particularly opaque about what is compliant, though Note 10.35 specifies:

```
A character sequence corresponding to a namelist input item of character type shall be delimited either with apostrophes or with quotes. The delimiter is required to avoid ambiguity between undelimited character sequences and object names. The value of the DELIM= specifier, if any, in the OPEN statement for an external file is ignored during namelist input (9.4.5.6).
```

Care needs to be taken when writing outputs that will be read as namelist inputs.  Do not change the `DELIM=` parameter unless the character variables written are already quoted.
